Okay, let's try a volume check.
Okay, this is Ron Shorn, and I'm interviewing Jack
Brandt, and for the record, give your full name. My
entire full name? John Conrad Brandt, Jr. Okay,
and when were you born? I was born on... Well,
that's actually a tricky question, but it will...
To give you insight into how my life has gone, I was
actually born on August 7th, 1934. Both my mother
and father agreed that I was born on August 7th,
1934. However, the city of St. Louis says I was born
on August 8th, 1934. So it turns out I ran afoul of
bureaucracy, essentially, on square one, and
have been running afoul of bureaucracies ever
since. How did you get interested in astronomy?
You know, that is really hard to say, but it's the
kind of thing that I think is very unnatural to
people. The specific thing that I can remember is
writing a paper very early in my college career on
the determination of the speed of light by Ole
Womer and whoever worked with him from the
satellites of Jupiter. And I was impressed that
such a basically simple approach to a fairly
fundamental observation could yield ballpark
the correct results. And this idea of being able to
use your wits to determine what's going on in a
cosmic sense appealed to me, and I guess it was
downhill from there on. Where'd you get your
undergraduate degree and when? Undergraduate
degree at Washington University in St. Louis in
1956. And what was your major? Mathematics. Okay,
and then where'd you go to grad school? I went to
grad school twice. The first time was at the
University of Chicago, 56 to 60, when I got a
degree, PhD in astronomy. And then due to various
malfeasances of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration from 1981 to 1983, I went to
graduate school at Loyola College in Baltimore
and obtained a Master of Business
Administration. Who was your thesis advisor?
What was your thesis? My thesis was on different
ways of producing Lyman-alpha radiation in the
solar system. This included some planets and
what was then called the interplanetary medium.
The solar wind hadn't actually been fully
invented yet. It was around but not used. And my
thesis advisor was Joseph Chamberlain. How did
you get interested in that field? Did they pick
you, or did you go around and pick something else?
It was sort of a little bit of both. When I first went
to Yerkes, I was, of course, taking courses. And I
had a one-year research assistantship on the
astrometry project that was being run by Kai
Strand at the time. And I quickly determined that I
was not all that interested in astrometry. And
this guy named Joe Chamberlain seemed to be doing
interesting physics in the atmospheres of
planets, and he was also working on solar wind
theory at the time. So the juncture was natural,
and I think he's been very productive.
Where did you go after you got your PhD? The first
year after the PhD, I was something called an NSF
cooperative.
Cooperative, oh boy, it's been a long time. But
some kind of postdoctoral fellowship that
involved the postdoctoral institution
contributing resources and NSF paid the salary.
And that was essentially late 60 to late 61 at Mount
Wilson and Palomar, literally on 813 Santa
Barbara Street. And where'd you go from there?
Then I came to Berkeley. How long did you stay
there? I stayed here a year and a half. And then I
went to Kitt Peak in early 63 and stayed there for
three years. And then in 66, I went to the Goddard
Institute for Space Studies and stayed there
about a year. And they were then trying to get
people to go to Goddard and run things. So I started
out in the solar physics branch in 1967 as Ed was the
technical title, and then I was made Chief of the
Laboratory for Solar Physics. And that evolved
and amalgamated, and for about the last 10 years at
Goddard, which ended in 87, so from 77 to 87, I was
Chief of the Laboratory for Astronomy and Solar
Physics. And then you wrote, and then you went? And
then I went to the University of Colorado, where I
am Senior Research Associate and Professor
Perrin Attendant Rank, close Perrin. I'm just,
I'm not making this up. I'll give you my card if you
don't believe it, of Astrophysical, Planetary,
and Atmospheric Sciences. We require
documentation for that, so you want to save some
tape.
Okay, do you consider yourself an astronomer?
Yeah. And if you consider yourself a solar system
astronomer, a solar system or planetary
astronomer or just a plain astronomer? I consider
both. Usually the world, for reasons which are not
sound, describes all astronomers into solar
system people and the equivalent of
astrophysicists. I am both. Back in the
early 60s, did you feel looked down upon by real
quote-unquote astronomers? Well, I'm
absolutely sure that real astronomers tried to
look down on me, but I didn't let them. And I'm being
slightly serious. I, for quite some time, have
chosen the things to work on that I was interested
in for what I perceived to be their intrinsic merit
and interest to me. And if somebody else doesn't
think that's important, that's, in my personal
opinion, their problem. Do you think that real
astronomers look down on planetary anything
closer in the light year, back in the 60s? And do
they do it now? Well, they certainly did in the 60s.
But this is simply a mental aberration that should
not be unduly dignified. There is a huge tendency
in astronomy for anybody working in any field to
regard anything that that person is not
personally working on as unimportant. I think it
far transcends the astrophysicist looking down
on the solar system people, and you can even take it
further, and then you get into the
astrophysicist, the people that work on
cosmology and quasars look down on the stellar
people. And it's sort of another form of prejudice
in our society that shouldn't be unduly
dignified. What was astronomy and planetary
astronomy like when you got started as opposed to
today? I don't know about as opposed to today. We
were just starting to get into missions to
planets, which of course were very exciting. And a
lot of the work that I did first with Joe
Chamberlain with myself was some of the first work
done on, for example, Lyman Alpha from the
planets. Half of my astronomer friends didn't
know what Lyman Alpha was, which I found somewhat
amusing. But I'm sorry. I tilted it back at the
wrong time. Yeah, go ahead. What's the best piece
of work that you think you've done? It had to be
carved on a tombstone.
That would be awfully hard to pin down. As you know,
Ron, my approach to astronomy has been somewhat
eclectic. I've done archaeoastronomy. I've done
rotation curves of galaxies, fiddled with the GUM
nebula. I was the principal investigator for the
GHRS, which has contributed to lots of
disciplines. I have helped found the
International Halley Watch. I helped start the
Solar Maximum Mission. Anything that I have done,
the more recent stuff that I'm doing right now, I'm
as proud of as anything. That is, I think we have
pinned down to within all a reasonable doubt what
the source of disconnection events in comets
might be. And the answer is magnetic reconnection
of sector boundaries. which is what we proposed 15
years ago, but we didn't have, that was a good
speculation, we didn't have the evidence to back
it up. I think we have the evidence now, but it's
sort of like asking somebody what their favorite
child is. I view whatever my contribution is to
astronomy to be in multiple areas, including
trying to run a NASA laboratory intelligently,
helping sell missions. I think 50 years from now,
Stuff I did on the International Halley Watch may
be what I'm remembered by. I really don't know.
What was the most fun?
Well, you know, that is very hard to say. I think
selling the GHRS, because everybody told us...
Which is the... Goddard high-resolution
spectrograph on the Hubble Space Telescope.
Everybody told us in 1976 and 1977 that a proposal
from a NASA lab didn't have a chance of a snowball,
and you know where... And, of course, we were
category one and selected, and it's up and
working. So, again, when you want singles, you
know, I'll tell you stuff that I consider to be
exciting and productive, but it's hard to pin
down. Do you ever have any dead ends, misfires,
things like that? Sure, dead ends and misfires. I
had a most wonderful theory of the blue clearing on
Mars. That would be totally wrong. But it was a
great theory. What was it? Well, at that time,
there was evidence, which we now know to be false,
that the solar wind might stop around 2 AU. And so we
postulated that it stopped, obviously, around
the orbit of Mars and that the eccentricity would
carry it in and out of this boundary. Absolutely
wonderful theory that had nothing to do with
reality. When did you first cross swords with an
ASA? your first official contact. Yeah, I
wouldn't say that I had crossed swords with NASA,
although NASA might have an older to do.
Well, I was, whilst at Kitt Peak, involved with, I
think it was Mariner 4, with an experiment that
Charlie Barth was doing when he was still at JPL.
Now, I may have this a little garbled, because as
you know, that was 30 years ago. And
something happened, and we were all summarily
tossed off the mission. And it apparently
bothered Charlie so much that he moved to the
University of Colorado, where he was my director
for five years. That was probably it, my first one.
But clearly, when I became a NASA employee and a
NASA
branch head and then a lab chief, it was a long
interaction for about 20 years. And I will say it
was only towards the end that the cost-benefit
ratio went strongly unfavorable. In the 60s, if
you were in NASA and had good ideas and were willing
to work hard, you could get really neat things
done. Like we sold the SMM mission. Solar Maxwell
mission. Yeah, sorry. So we sold that, and I think
it's been one of the most productive solar
missions around. And then we were done with that,
and we sold the Goddard high resolution
spectrograph. And it helped start the Halley
watch. And you can go down the list. But now,
generally speaking, even if you have a good idea
and you're willing to work hard, it doesn't
matter. It's not going to happen anyway. In
general, do you think NASA's handled planetary
science good or bad?
Or average? Let's start with the pluses, and then
we'll try to draw a conclusion. It's done a lot. I
mean, we've had missions to Mercury and Venus and
Mars and Jupiter and Uranus, Saturn, Neptune. So,
you know, it's hard to fault the accomplishments,
in my opinion, of the NASA Planet missions. You
know, missions to the moon, we've got rocks and a
whole bit, and Mars observers on its way. It
doesn't have any significant problems that I know
of. And Galileo's one as well. It does have a
significant problem, but you can probably recoup
a fair amount of that. I've heard a number of people
say that NASA gets the pretty pictures and then
cuts off the money before the data is really
properly examined and published. Is that true? I
think you can take two views of that, and then let's
try to decide which is correct. There's certainly
that tendency, and especially under the new
administrator, Daniel Golden, I think there is
even more than normal an inclination to launch
something and skim the cream and then declare
victory and go home. The old NASA motto among the
troops was build it, launch it, and forget it, and
I'm afraid we're going back to that under the
management that's been around for the last 10
years or so. largely involving people like Ren
Fisk, I think there was a tendency to understand
that when you build something like this, that the
risk part was in the building, testing, and
launching, and that the mission part, so-called
M-O-N-D-A in NASA parlance, mission operations
and data analysis, is the good part, the cream
skimming the gravy. But regrettably, I think
we're going back to that. So I think it is a real
problem. The thought of turning off things like
Magellan I think sets a precedent which I really
don't even want to think about. But it is almost
surely going to happen. So I would say that NASA, up
until semi-recently, has improved in that area
over the early days. But now they seem to be
regressing backward into the old build, launch,
and forget syndrome. Where do you think planetary
astronomy would be today without the money that
NASA's put into it? We wouldn't even recognize it.
We've gone places and seen things that we just
absolutely could not do from Earth. We do a lot from
Earth. Having a mix of ground-based and space and
in situ and theory and all of the above is the way you
make progress. Do you feel that people at
headquarters in the past and in the present really
understand what the troops in the field are doing?
Do they keep up with the science? I really don't
know how to answer that. I deal mostly now in my
astrophysical hat with Ed Weiler. who is very
knowledgeable about what's going on, and with, in
my planetary hat, with Jurgen Rahi, who I would say
the same thing, but they are in an environment
which is, I think, charitably fire drill
oriented, and whether they can spend enough time
to keep fully up to date, I don't know, but I think
they make a very good effort. Whether the top,
remember this is the discipline chief level, And
these people invariably are or were active
scientists. And I think their ability to keep up
with what's going on is relatively good. As you
then go higher in the NASA hierarchy, where
frankly most of the decisions are made, I think the
organization tends to be out of touch with
anything outside the beltway. 30 years ago, there
was just an American Astronomical Society. Now
there are all these sub-societies. And the first
one, I guess, was the Division of Planetary
Sciences. Has that been a good thing or a bad thing
for A, planetary astronomy, and B, astronomy in
general? I am one of the last holdouts against the
Division of Planetary Sciences. I only joined
last year. I believe that the... The division does
serve a useful purpose in bringing everybody
together, and I now religiously go to the
meetings, but I think it has also further helped to
drive the wedge between the planetary community
and the other community. They never did talk very
much to each other, even back when we were grad
school. But this sort of makes it official.
30 years ago, Icarus was an obscure journal
publishing obscure papers by Bulgarians,
Austrian mechanics, and you've got to give Carl
Sagan credit. He really changed that around. Do
you happen to know who wrote the first paper in
Icarus? Well, you did. Yeah, thank you. I'm
talking about the majority of papers, all right?
It turns out that paper was wrong, incidentally,
which came to a shock to Joe Burns. Do you think the
rise of Icarus has been a good thing? I mean, we
don't see planetary papers in the APJ anymore, not
that we saw a whole lot of them. Well, I still
publish some of my planetary papers in APJ, and I
publish some in ICRIS, and I publish some in AJ, and
I plan to publish some in ANA. As I described
earlier, a lot of this work I've been doing with DEs
and the Halley data has all come to fruition, so
there's a flock of papers coming out. ANA is?
Astronomy and Astrophysics, the so-called
European Journal. which is about international
or anything. I think Icarus has been turned into a
first-rate journal. Whether or not those papers
would have been published anywhere, somewhere
else, I couldn't possibly tell you. Do you think,
take this meeting out, do you think the
astronomers here, this is your personal opinion
again, that they look down on planetary astronomy
now, is there a grudging acceptance, is there a
wholehearted acceptance? I honestly don't know.
And that stems from not caring. Some may. I'm sure
there's something to do. But so what? Here's a
particular and a general question. The
particular one is, what's the reaction you get
from people you meet on the airplane when you tell
them you're an astronomer? Oh, that's easy. When I
tell them I'm an astronomer, it's wonderful. When
I tell them I work on Hubble, it's not so wonderful.
And for the first year or so after the spherical
aberration was discovered, I did not volunteer
that information. Things have, the general
public perception has improved to the point where
I can now volunteer it without risking, you know,
three hours with the person next to you beating you
over the head verbally. What do you think the
public's general attitude towards planetary
astronomy and astronomy in general? I think the
public has fantastic support for the general
mission of astronomy in general and of NASA. in
terms of exploration of space and orbiting
observatories in particular. I find that it's the
political process where the support tends to
weaken. But I give lots of public talks. I
personally figure I'm supported by public monies
and giving talks on my comic work, Hubble and
whatever else is part of the territory, and I find
tremendous reception. Do you think planetary
astronomers in particular and astronomers in
general have done as good a job as they could in
selling themselves to the public in Congress?
Undoubtedly not. No question.
On the other hand, Would you agree that there's
probably more realization now that we're getting
paid by the public and we've got to tell them? Is
that true? Would you go along with that?
I doubt that, actually. I think in some levels that
is well-perceived. But I continue to meet people
who regard their intellectual inquiry almost as a
divine right. Just give me the money and don't ask
questions. Exactly. I'm smart. I'm uncovering
the secrets of the universe. Send the check. How
good a job have we done with the Congress? We've
probably done even worse with the Congress. We
tend, like almost all segments of U.S. society, to
respond only to, at 11.59 on a scale of 12 o'clock,
to impending disasters. When something that's
near and dear to our heart is about to be canceled,
we spring into action, but we don't do the homework
that would have prevented us from getting in that
situation in the first place? Well, we haven't
found life anywhere, any trace of evidence of life
anywhere in the solar system except where we know
it is on Earth. Do we? Well, we haven't found it yet.
What's the evidence for it? All right. Has that had
any effect on funding and public interest, the
fact that, for example, there are emersions?
I doubt it. You know, these are, quote, finding of
life, unquote, is such a long shot. I think most
people understand what the odds are. A lot of
people have gotten a lot of publicity and money, I
guess, lately, pushing topics like killer
asteroids, ozone holes, search for
extraterrestrial intelligence, other solar
systems. You think they're overdoing it?
Let me just comment on the killer asteroid
syndrome. Nothing that I personally know of
that's being done there is bad science. In fact,
there's a lot of good science there. And it's an
area that I have some interest. I am trying to get
modest funding to do searches for small comets. It
turns out that really is a different problem if you
read the space watch survey carefully. I believe,
however, that Congress is funding it for what they
believe to be the danger to Earth. And although
there clearly is a danger to Earth, I think that is
probably overblown. It probably won't do any harm
either.
What killed planetary, essentially killed
planetary astronomy earlier in the century? Is it
just personal oil that we run out of? I really don't
know the answer to that question. Partly the
reason I don't like to put, don't know, but even if I
thought I did, a lot of these things tend to go in
cycles. And it's sort of like education, you know,
we use phonics and then it's whatever, whatever,
whatever. So I don't take short-term
fluctuations too seriously. And I think under the
last 20, 25 years with NASA and all of the direct
missions that we, planetary astronomy, may have
gotten the lion's share of something, and if it
goes back the other way, so what? What's the state
of planetary astronomy today? Plus, minus, zero?
I still think it's a plus.
And keeping it a plus, in my view, depends on Three
things. Continued vitality at the young
investigator level. In other words, enough funds
to keep a crop of fresh blood, fresh ideas coming
into the field. The development, that's one. Two
is the development of good ground-based
capabilities for observations of planets. And
the third is keeping a reasonable semblance of the
space program going. Of the three, I worry most
about the last one, number three. But they're all
intertwined at a rather good level. And so even as
we speak, again, we have Galileo and Mars
Observer. And so my big question is, where is the
next planetary mission coming from? Will it be the
Discovery series? a larger mission, whatever.
In the last 30 years since NASI got into business,
the taxpayers have spent a lot of money on
planetary astronomy. What do you think they've
gotten back from it? I think they've gotten a lot of
excitement. I frankly think that that money,
generally speaking, has been well spent and that
enough has come of it that is straightforward, and
reasonably simple to understand. You don't need
to be a professional astronomer to look at an image
of a planet at a new resolution or a new wavelength
and see there's brand new stuff going on there. I
find that, again, when I talk to people in a public
type, you know, the Kiwanis Club, ARP is one of my,
they're desperate always for programs where I
live, so they keep calling me up. that people
appreciate what is being done. I don't think that
when people hear that the NASA budget is 1% of the
federal budget that they consider that ill spin at
all. Most people think it's 10% or 15%,
incidentally, which is not true. But again,
perception is the problem here. Let's get a
particular case now. The University of Colorado
doesn't have any conservatory or anything.
Again, I'm asking questions. You know I know some
of the answers to them. But how did space science
and planetary astronomy get going at Colorado?
Space science had a really long tradition
starting right after World War II with what was
then the physics department and people like Bill
Rents doing spectroscopy of first the sun and
other solar system objects from rockets. And this
has gone on through the years. And I think one of the
other important things was Charlie Barth coming
to the University of Colorado. It has then been
formulated as a goal of the university to be one of
the preeminent centers of space research in the
country. So I think it started right after World
War II. with rockets, mostly launched from white
sands. And then it has developed into the more
ambitious programs, the missions to planets. And
one of the major OSO 8
experiments was the University of Colorado.
So I think that pretty much does it. Now, of course,
we're a major Of course, in the industry, we have a
major new building where we build the
instruments. And one of our new instruments is one
Larry Esposito is building for Cassini. Mission
to Saturn, studying rings and everything else. So
he's standing pretty good with the
administration. Not sure what that means. We win
our share of the competitions, which is the way all
these things are selected, and we have areas of
world-recognized expertise, detectors,
systems, et cetera. Just out of curiosity, what
percentage of undergrad students are actually
getting the exposure to astronomy? I can't, well,
first you have to define that. There is an
undergraduate, you know, astronomy one type
course, and that has hundreds of people So there's
some fraction that way. For a long time, there was a
satellite called SME, the Solar Mesospheric
Explorer, where undergraduates could actually
go in and learn how to operate a spacecraft. And for
a long time, we were the only university that was
operating their own spacecraft. And we did it with
the proper supervision, but literally with
undergraduate students And the University of
Colorado has also had a fair number of people go on
into the Astronaut Corps. Alan Shepard and there
are others. I don't want to start down the list,
because I'll surely forget one. But there's a
bunch. People are still churning out grad
students in space sciences and planetary
astronomy and regular astronomy. When is that
going to stop? Well, all economic systems are
self-correcting. I try to be fairly candid with my
students about what their job chances are, and
they're not, I tell them, they're not what they
used to be. Some of these people have almost built
in things, like one of my very best graduate
students is from Korea. He wants to go back to
Korea. He'll get a job in Korea because he has a
prestigious education and all that kind of thing.
But as long ago, this was probably 20 years ago when
I was doing some teaching at the University of
Maryland. While I was at Goddard, I had an adjoint
professorship at Maryland. And Gart Westerhout
used to give the incoming students a little sheet
of paper that said, OK, here you are. We'll be happy
to educate you, but you really ought to know that
you might not get a job being this studying
cosmology at Mount Wilson and Palomar
Observatories, you might wind up teaching in a
small college or working for IBM or CSC or
something like that. I think a lot of people are
being honest about it. A lot of students, students
that come into graduate school or at an age that are
not always amenable to that kind of advice, to put
it mildly, and you can't do anything about that.
But I believe if you're honest up front, you're
okay. Do you think planetary astronomy is kind of
mined out as regards big discoveries? Nonsense.
Professor Ari was not correct 100 years ago. No, it
was not. Because that's something that several
people have mentioned is, well, you know, we now
know what the backside of the moon looks like.
But there's no evidence of it. I think that's a very
basic lack of understanding of what intellectual
inquiry and knowledge are all about the day we
quote know everything
between the super colliding superconductor and
the space station it's easy which one do you want
pick the super colliding superconductor ask him
and tell us something that we would actually like
to know rather than have wpa for the command
program or the people's program um What happened
in planetary astronomy? Well, missions got more
and more complex and more and more expensive, and I
guess Viking was the ultimate one. And then what
happened? Did the money just dry up, or did people
say, wait a minute, the next mission's going to
cost the gross natural product? Or what actually
happened? Hard to say in detail, but due to human
nature, Everything tends to escalate in expense
and complexity. You know, Toyotas and Nissans or
Datsuns, as they were then called 10 years ago,
were at the low end of the curve, and they kept
creeping up and creeping up. And the same human
tendency works in missions. And if a $300 or $400
million mission was great, well, how about a $2
billion, that one ought to be really fantastic.
And of course, you reach some kind of law of
diminishing returns where the increment in
knowledge is not necessarily proportional to the
increment in cost, to put it as delicately as
possible. So that, coupled with the fact that I am
virtually sure that people in the NASA hierarchy
are rewarded by the size of their missions or the
amount of the budget that they control, You have a
built-in escalation mechanism. And I think we see
that in everything that we do. And partly, it's a
technological advance. We know how to do things
better. We don't want to do it the same way we did it
15 or 20 years ago. And partially, it's the
tendency towards complexity and bureaucracy and
all the other little nummies that we have come to
love and know. Now let's go back to the late
unpleasantness at the Yerkes Observatory. Now,
you may have been safely out of there, but I recall I
spent a summer up there, and people like you and
Ernie Heiser were telling people, don't come here
to grad school. I mean, we're stuck here. We've got
to finish it out. And that place was, as far as I
know, famous for its infighting and everything.
And eventually it got Quaker canned, so I
understand. Is that true, do you know? It's true to
the best of my knowledge that there was a revolt and
a no-confidence vote and all that kind of thing. As
a student there, I don't remember it quite as bad. I
mean, we knew the fighting was going on, but it
didn't actually affect us all that much in
retrospect. And I'm perfectly happy with the
education that I got there. But there's no
question it was, it could get a little hairy. Was
Kuiper, you left before Kuiper was ousted? No, no,
Kuiper left. between my third and fourth years
there. Which would be? 1959.
And that's when LPL was founded in Tucson. But when
I left, Morgan was acting director, which was a fun
thing in and of itself. But corporate had already
gone. Actually, only a few people survived that
three- or four-year period in there. Well,
remember that when I first went there, Bengt
Ströngren was director. And I don't know what
happened to him. I don't know whether he was pushed
or shoved. It doesn't matter. He said, fine, I'm
going back to my professorship as Carlsberg
professor at the observatory in Denmark, which I
now cannot remember the name of. It's a famous
observatory. Yeah, it's in Copenhagen. Yeah, if
any of us says the name, we'll know what it is. And I
was told, don't have actual proof, but repeatedly
told that the Carlsberg brewery put major funding
into there, which, hey, we can handle that. And
then Kuiper was director for a year or two. I don't
know if it was one or two. I don't know. I don't
remember. whether Strump was one or two years in.
Morgan was, I think, acting director the last
year. I've heard from a number of people that there
were a lot of people saying things like studying
the solar system is a waste of time. You know, we
should be doing real astronomy. Well, there were a
lot. In fairness, not only did Joe Chamberlain do
solar system work, but so did Kuiper. And Kuiper
was a hell of a smart man. People tend to forget that
because his personality was a little rough. But he
was very innovative. His studies of what we now
call the Kuiper-Duncan belt were 30, 35 years, 40
years ahead of their time, whatever the number is.
And I think it's a tendency to underestimate his
abilities and contributions, which I think is
wrong. Do you remember when Aidan Minell left?
That was... We had zero overlap at Yerkes, so I
don't know when that was. And Joe Chamberlain? Joe
Chamberlain was still at Yerkes when I left, and
two years later, two and a half years later, he took
the job as director, associate director of the
space division, Kitt Peak, and I joined him at Kitt
Peak for three years.